.TH CLONE\-MU2E\-REPOS 1 "April 2026" "DAQ-ControlRoom" "Mu2e DAQ Utilities"
.SH NAME
clone\-mu2e\-repos \- clone all repositories in the Mu2e GitHub organisation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B clone_mu2e_repos.sh
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B clone_mu2e_repos.sh
iterates over every repository in the
.B mu2e
GitHub organisation (up to 4000 repositories) and clones each one into a
local directory hierarchy that mirrors the
.I org/repo
namespace.
.PP
The script is a thin wrapper around the GitHub CLI
.RB ( gh ).
It runs
.B gh repo list
to enumerate repositories and then
.B gh repo clone
for each one.
The target clone path is set to
.IR org/repo ,
so all repositories land under a
.B mu2e/
subdirectory relative to the current working directory.
.PP
Repositories that have already been cloned are not re-cloned; the
.B gh repo clone
command will print an error for any destination that already exists, and the
loop will continue with the next repository.
.SH PREREQUISITES
.TP
.BR gh (1)
GitHub CLI, authenticated via
.B gh auth login
or a
.B GITHUB_TOKEN
environment variable.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Exits with the status of the last
.B gh repo clone
invocation.
Failures for individual repositories are printed but do not stop the loop.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Clone all Mu2e repositories into the current directory:
.PP
.nf
cd ~/work
bash clone_mu2e_repos.sh
.fi
.PP
Subsequent runs will attempt (and fail harmlessly) to re-clone existing
directories.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gh (1),
.BR git\-clone (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Andrew Norman, Mu2e DAQ group, Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory.
