.TH DAQ\-ENV\-TOOLS 1 "April 2026" "DAQ-ControlRoom" "Mu2e DAQ Utilities"
.SH NAME
daq\-env\-tools \- capture and restore shell environment variables for DAQ processes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B daq\-env\-tools.py
.RB [ \-c | \-r ]
[\fB\-i\fR \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-o\fR \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-\-config\fR \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-f\fR]
[\fB\-v\fR]
[\fB\-d\fR]
[\fB\-s\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B daq\-env\-tools.py
captures the complete set of environment variables from the running process
into a JSON file, or restores a previously captured environment from such a
file.
.PP
The primary use case is preserving a known-good DAQ software environment
(e.g. one set up by
.BR setup.sh ,
.BR muse ,
or
.BR ups )
so that it can be applied to a subsequent process or session without
re-running the full setup chain.
It also provides a helper function
.RB ( store_restore_exec_command )
that can save the current environment, switch to a stored environment,
execute a command, and then restore the original environment — useful for
running a single command in an isolated environment without spawning a
sub-shell.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-capture
Dump all current environment variables to the output file (see
.BR \-o ).
If the output file already exists the command fails unless
.B \-f
is also given.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-restore
Read environment variables from the input file (see
.BR \-i )
and apply them to the current process via
.BR os.environ .
The input file must exist.
.TP
.BI \-i " file" "\fR,\fP \-\-input " file
Input filename used by
.BR \-\-restore .
Default:
.IR default_env_in.json .
.TP
.BI \-o " file" "\fR,\fP \-\-output " file
Output filename used by
.BR \-\-capture .
Default:
.IR default_env_out.json .
.TP
.BI \-\-config " file"
Path to an optional JSON configuration file.
Default:
.IR env_config.json .
Currently parsed but not applied.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force
Allow
.B \-\-capture
to overwrite an existing output file.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
Enable debug output.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-silent
Suppress all output.
.SH FILE FORMAT
Environment files are JSON objects where each key is an environment
variable name and each value is its string value:
.PP
.nf
{
    "PATH": "/usr/local/bin:/usr/bin:/bin",
    "MU2E_SETUP_VERSION": "v10_00_00",
    ...
}
.fi
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
The input file specified by
.B \-\-restore
does not exist; or the output file specified by
.B \-\-capture
already exists and
.B \-\-force
was not given.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Capture the current environment
.PP
.nf
source /path/to/mu2e_setup.sh
python3 daq\-env\-tools.py \-\-capture \-\-output mu2e_env.json
.fi
.SS Restore a saved environment
.PP
.nf
python3 daq\-env\-tools.py \-\-restore \-\-input mu2e_env.json
.fi
.SS Force-overwrite an existing capture
.PP
.nf
python3 daq\-env\-tools.py \-\-capture \-\-output mu2e_env.json \-\-force
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR env (1),
.BR printenv (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Andrew Norman, Mu2e DAQ group, Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory.
