.TH GETTICKET 1 "April 2026" "DAQ-ControlRoom" "Mu2e DAQ Utilities"
.SH NAME
GetTicket \- obtain a Kerberos ticket from a keytab file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B GetTicket.sh
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B GetTicket.sh
obtains a Kerberos ticket-granting ticket (TGT) for a service principal
using a keytab file, without requiring interactive password entry.
The principal name and keytab path are set as shell variables at the top of
the script and should be edited to match the local site configuration.
.PP
The script selects the appropriate
.B kinit
invocation for the host operating system:
.TP
.B macOS (Apple_Terminal)
.nf
kinit \-f \-A \-k \-t <keytab> <principal>
.fi
.TP
.B Linux
.nf
kinit \-5 \-F \-A \-k \-t <keytab> <principal>
.fi
.PP
Both invocations produce a forwardable, addressless ticket, which is
required for SSH port-forwarding workflows used in the Mu2e control room.
.PP
Output from
.B kinit
is suppressed; check the exit code or run
.B klist
afterwards to verify that a ticket was obtained.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The following variables are set near the top of the script and must be
customised for the local site:
.TP
.B pname
Full Kerberos principal name, e.g.
.IR "mu2eshift/mu2edaq/mu2e.fnal.gov@FNAL.GOV" .
.TP
.B keytab
Filename of the keytab (without path), e.g.
.IR mu2eshift.keytab .
.TP
.B keytabpath
Directory containing the keytab file.
Default:
.IR $HOME/.krb5 .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Ticket was obtained successfully.
.TP
.B non-zero
.B kinit
failed; the credential cache was not updated.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Obtain a ticket using the defaults compiled into the script:
.PP
.nf
bash GetTicket.sh
klist
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kinit (1),
.BR klist (1),
.BR kdestroy (1),
.BR mu2e\-krb\-cron (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Andrew Norman, Mu2e DAQ group, Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory.
