.TH KERB 1 "April 2026" "DAQ-ControlRoom" "Mu2e DAQ Utilities"
.SH NAME
kerb \- display the active Kerberos principal and all known credential caches
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kerb.py
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kerb.py
is a diagnostic Python script that prints information about the current
Kerberos state using the
.B krb5
and
.B gssapi
Python bindings.
.PP
On each run it:
.IP 1. 3
Prints the principal stored in the default credential cache.
.IP 2. 3
Prints the system's default Kerberos realm.
.IP 3. 3
Iterates over all credential caches known to the local Kerberos collection
and prints the principal name for each cache that contains one.
.PP
The script is intended as a quick status check, equivalent to running
.B klist \-A
but using the Python
.B krb5
library directly rather than parsing command-line output.
.SH PREREQUISITES
.TP
.B Python 3
Standard library.
.TP
.B krb5
Python Kerberos 5 bindings
.RB ( pip\ install\ krb5 ).
.TP
.B gssapi
Python GSSAPI bindings
.RB ( pip\ install\ gssapi ).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Normal exit.
.TP
.B non-zero
A fatal exception from the
.B krb5
library; typically indicates that no Kerberos infrastructure is available.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Check which principal is active and what caches exist:
.PP
.nf
python3 kerb.py
.fi
.PP
Example output:
.PP
.nf
mu2eshift/mu2edaq/mu2e.fnal.gov@FNAL.GOV
FNAL.GOV
b'mu2edaq/mu2edaq/mu2e.fnal.gov@FNAL.GOV'
b'mu2eshift/mu2edaq/mu2e.fnal.gov@FNAL.GOV'
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR klist (1),
.BR kinit (1),
.BR ticket\-manage (1),
.BR mu2e\-krb\-cron (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Andrew Norman, Mu2e DAQ group, Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory.
