.TH LIST\-ISSUES\-MU2E 1 "April 2026" "DAQ-ControlRoom" "Mu2e DAQ Utilities"
.SH NAME
list\-issues\-mu2e \- list open GitHub issues across all Mu2e organisation repositories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B list_issues_mu2e.sh
[\fB\-s\fR \fIorder\fR]
[\fB\-o\fR \fIformat\fR]
[\fB\-f\fR \fIpath\fR]
[\fB\-r\fR \fIrepo\fR]
[\fB\-l\fR \fIlabel\fR]
[\fB\-j\fR \fIn\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B list_issues_mu2e.sh
queries the GitHub API to enumerate every repository in the
.B mu2e
organisation (up to 4000 repositories), then fetches all open issues for each
one.
Issues are sorted by creation date and rendered in the chosen output format.
.PP
Repository discovery is performed automatically via
.BR "gh repo list" ;
no local clones are required.
.PP
Authentication is handled by the GitHub CLI.
If
.I ~/.credentials/github.token
exists it is exported as
.B GH_TOKEN
before any API call.
Otherwise the existing
.B gh auth login
session is used.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-sort " " \fIorder\fR
Sort issues by creation date.
.I order
must be
.B newest
(default, most\-recent first) or
.BR oldest
(oldest first).
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIformat\fR
Select the output format.
.I format
must be one of:
.RS
.TP
.B terminal
Colour\-formatted table written to standard output (default).
Issues are presented as a flat chronological list, grouped under repository
headers.
.TP
.B html
Self\-contained HTML file.
Issues are grouped by repository; every issue number and title is a clickable
link to the corresponding GitHub page.
Default path:
.IR /tmp/mu2e\-issues.html .
.TP
.B pdf
PDF with embedded hyperlinks.
The HTML intermediate is converted to PDF using the first available engine:
.BR pandoc (1)
with
.I weasyprint
or
.I wkhtmltopdf
as backend, standalone
.BR wkhtmltopdf (1),
or headless Chromium/Chrome.
Default path:
.IR /tmp/mu2e\-issues.pdf .
.TP
.B browser
HTML file is generated (as above) and then opened immediately in the system
default browser via
.BR open (1)
(macOS) or
.BR xdg\-open (1)
(Linux).
.RE
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-file " " \fIpath\fR
Override the default output file path for the
.B html
and
.B pdf
formats.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-repo " " \fIname\fR
Restrict the query to a single repository.
.I name
may be given with or without the organisation prefix
(e.g.\&
.I Offline
or
.IR mu2e/Offline ).
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-label " " \fIlabel\fR
Filter issues by GitHub label name.
.TP
.BR \-j ", " \-\-jobs " " \fIn\fR
Number of repositories to query in parallel (default: 4).
Increasing this value speeds up large scans at the cost of higher API
concurrency.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a usage summary and exit.
.SH PREREQUISITES
.TP
.BR gh (1)
GitHub CLI \(>= 2.0.
.TP
.BR jq (1)
Command\-line JSON processor.
.TP
.I ~/.credentials/github.token
.RI "(optional)"
Personal access token with at least
.B repo
scope.
Required only when no
.B gh auth login
session exists.
.TP
.BR pandoc (1) " or " wkhtmltopdf (1) " or Chromium"
Required only for
.B \-\-output pdf
(any one of these is sufficient).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success (includes the case where no issues are found).
.TP
.B 1
A prerequisite was not met, an argument was invalid, or PDF conversion failed.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Print all open issues sorted newest first (default):
.PP
.nf
list_issues_mu2e.sh
.fi
.PP
Print issues oldest first:
.PP
.nf
list_issues_mu2e.sh --sort oldest
.fi
.PP
Generate an HTML report:
.PP
.nf
list_issues_mu2e.sh --output html --file ~/mu2e-issues.html
.fi
.PP
Open a live HTML report in the browser:
.PP
.nf
list_issues_mu2e.sh --output browser
.fi
.PP
Generate a PDF:
.PP
.nf
list_issues_mu2e.sh --output pdf --file ~/mu2e-issues.pdf
.fi
.PP
Issues for the Offline repository only, sorted oldest first:
.PP
.nf
list_issues_mu2e.sh --repo Offline --sort oldest
.fi
.PP
Filter to issues labelled \(lqbug\(rq and open as HTML in browser:
.PP
.nf
list_issues_mu2e.sh --label bug --output browser
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gh (1),
.BR jq (1),
.BR list\-pr\-mu2e (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Andrew Norman, Mu2e DAQ group, Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory.
