.TH MU2E\-KRB\-CRON 1 "April 2026" "DAQ-ControlRoom" "Mu2e DAQ Utilities"
.SH NAME
mu2e\-krb\-cron \- headless Kerberos ticket lifecycle manager for cron
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mu2e\-krb\-cron.py
[\fB\-\-config\fR \fIFILE\fR]
[\fB\-\-verbose\fR]
[\fB\-\-silent\fR]
[\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mu2e\-krb\-cron.py
is a headless Python script designed to be invoked from
.BR cron (8)
to manage Kerberos ticket lifecycle for Mu2e DAQ service principals.
.PP
On each run the script inspects the default Kerberos credential cache and
takes one of the following actions:
.TP
.B No ticket present
Calls
.B kinit \-kt
for every principal listed in the configuration, then exits.
.TP
.B Ticket present but principal not in the configured list
Destroys the current ticket cache with
.BR kdestroy ,
then calls
.B kinit \-kt
for every configured principal, then exits.
.TP
.B Ticket present, principal allowed, lifetime above the renew threshold
Logs that the ticket is healthy and exits without taking any action.
.TP
.B Ticket present, principal allowed, remaining lifetime below the renew threshold, and the renewable lifetime (renew\-till) is still above the renew\-till threshold
Renews the ticket in place with
.BR "kinit \-R" .
.TP
.B Ticket present, principal allowed, remaining lifetime below the renew threshold, and the renewable lifetime is also below the renew\-till threshold
The ticket can no longer be renewed usefully; obtains a fresh ticket with
.BR "kinit \-kt" .
.TP
.B After any ticket action
Calls
.BR kswitch (1)
to make the principal mapped to the current OS user the active default
credential cache (see
.B user_principals
in
.BR CONFIGURATION ).
.PP
OS\-specific
.B kinit
flags are selected automatically:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.BR macOS :
.B kinit \-f \-A \-k \-t
.I keytab principal
.IP \(bu 2
.BR Linux :
.B kinit \-5 \-F \-A \-k \-t
.I keytab principal
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-config " FILE"
Path to an external YAML configuration file.
When supplied this file completely replaces the configuration embedded in the
script.
Any
.B settings
keys omitted from the file receive their default values.
.TP
.BR \-\-verbose ", " \-v
Enable debug\-level log output.
Produces additional lines showing thresholds, the detected principal, raw
ticket times, and the exact commands that will be (or would be) run.
Takes precedence over
.BR \-\-silent .
.TP
.BR \-\-silent ", " \-s
Suppress all
.B INFO
messages.
Only
.B WARNING
and above are written to stdout.
Useful in cron entries where output should be mailed only on genuine
problems.
.TP
.BR \-\-dry\-run ", " \-n
Parse configuration and evaluate ticket state normally, but log the intended
.B kinit
or
.B kdestroy
commands instead of executing them.
No changes are made to any credential cache.
Useful for testing configuration before deploying the cron entry.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The script contains an embedded YAML block (\fBDEFAULT_CONFIG\fR) that serves
as its configuration when
.B \-\-config
is not given.
Edit that block directly for site\-specific principals and keytab paths,
or create a separate YAML file and pass it with
.BR \-\-config .
.SS Configuration file format
.PP
.nf
settings:
  renew_threshold_hours: 2          # renew if lifetime < this many hours
  renew_till_threshold_hours: 24    # get new ticket if renew\-till < this many hours
  log_file: /var/log/mu2e\-krb\-cron.log  # optional; omit to log to stdout only

principals:
  \- name: "principal/host/realm@REALM"
    keytab: "/path/to/principal.keytab"
  \- name: "other/host/realm@REALM"
    keytab: "/path/to/other.keytab"

user_principals:
  operatoruser: "principal/host/realm@REALM"
  anotheruser:  "other/host/realm@REALM"
.fi
.PP
At least one entry under
.B principals
is required.
Each entry must supply both
.B name
(the full Kerberos principal string) and
.B keytab
(an absolute path to the keytab file).
.SS Settings
.TP
.B renew_threshold_hours
Number of hours of remaining ticket lifetime below which the script will
attempt to renew or replace the ticket.
Default:
.BR 2 .
.TP
.B renew_till_threshold_hours
Number of hours of remaining
.I renewable
lifetime below which the script obtains a brand\-new ticket instead of
renewing.
Default:
.BR 24 .
.TP
.B log_file
Optional path to a file to which log output is appended in addition to
stdout.
If omitted, output goes to stdout only (suitable for capture by
.BR cron ).
.SS user_principals
.PP
An optional mapping from OS usernames to Kerberos principal strings.
After all ticket management is complete the script calls
.BR kswitch (1)
with the principal that corresponds to the user running the script.
If the current user is not present in the map, the
.B kswitch
step is skipped silently.
.PP
Example:
.PP
.nf
user_principals:
  mu2edaq:   "mu2edaq/mu2edaq/mu2e.fnal.gov@FNAL.GOV"
  mu2eshift: "mu2eshift/mu2edaq/mu2e.fnal.gov@FNAL.GOV"
.fi
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Normal exit — one of: ticket healthy, ticket renewed, new ticket obtained,
unknown principal destroyed and replaced, or dry\-run completed.
.TP
.B 1
Fatal error: configuration file not found, invalid YAML, no principals
configured, or failure to initialise the krb5 context.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Dry\-run with verbose output
.PP
.nf
python3 mu2e\-krb\-cron.py \-\-dry\-run \-\-verbose
.fi
.SS Run with an external config file
.PP
.nf
python3 mu2e\-krb\-cron.py \-\-config /etc/mu2e/krb\-cron.yaml
.fi
.SS Crontab entry (every 30 minutes)
.PP
Add to the crontab with
.BR crontab (1):
.PP
.nf
*/30 * * * * /usr/bin/python3 /path/to/DAQ\-ControlRoom/mu2e\-krb\-cron.py
.fi
.PP
To use an external config and capture errors by email:
.PP
.nf
MAILTO=oncall@example.com
*/30 * * * * /usr/bin/python3 /path/to/mu2e\-krb\-cron.py \e
    \-\-config /etc/mu2e/krb\-cron.yaml
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I mu2e\-krb\-cron.py
The script itself; contains the embedded default YAML configuration.
.TP
.I /Users/anorman/Kerberos_Keytabs/Mu2e/
Default directory referenced by the embedded configuration for Mu2e keytab
files.
.SH DEPENDENCIES
.TP
.B Python
3.9 or later.
.TP
.B krb5
Python Kerberos 5 bindings
.RB ( pip
.BR "install krb5" ).
.TP
.B pyyaml
YAML parser
.RB ( pip
.BR "install pyyaml" ).
.TP
.BR kinit (1),\  kdestroy (1),\  klist (1),\  kswitch (1)
Must be present on
.BR PATH .
Provided by the system Kerberos installation (MIT Kerberos on Linux;
Heimdal or MIT on macOS).
.B klist
is used to read current ticket expiry times.
.B kswitch
is used to set the active credential cache after ticket management.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kinit (1),
.BR kdestroy (1),
.BR klist (1),
.BR crontab (1),
.BR cron (8),
.BR krb5.conf (5)
.SH AUTHORS
Andrew Norman, Mu2e DAQ group, Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory.
.SH BUGS
Only the default credential cache is inspected; tickets in non\-default
caches are not managed.
.PP
The script takes action on behalf of the single configured principal whose
name matches the current default cache.
If multiple allowed principals have active tickets in separate caches, only
the default cache principal is evaluated for renewal.