.TH START\-VNC\-TUNNELS\-MU2E 1 "April 2026" "DAQ-ControlRoom" "Mu2e DAQ Utilities"
.SH NAME
start\-vnc\-tunnels\-mu2e \- open or close SSH tunnels for Mu2e DAQ VNC sessions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B start_vnc_tunnels_mu2e.sh
[\fB\-h\fR \fIhost\fR]
[\fB\-u\fR \fIuser\fR]
[\fB\-p\fR \fIstart_port\fR]
[\fB\-n\fR \fInum_ports\fR]
[\fB\-k\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B start_vnc_tunnels_mu2e.sh
opens (or closes) SSH port-forward tunnels so that a VNC client on the
local workstation can connect to VNC servers running inside the Mu2e DAQ
network.
.PP
The script iterates over a contiguous range of TCP ports beginning at
.I start_port
and creates one
.BR ssh (1)
tunnel per port.
Each tunnel is a background, multiplexed connection with a Unix-domain
control socket at
.IR /tmp/ssh\-ctrl\-<host>\-<port> ,
allowing individual tunnels to be cleanly shut down with the
.B \-k
flag.
.PP
A valid Kerberos ticket is required before any tunnels are opened.
The script calls
.B klist \-\-test
and exits with an error if no ticket is found.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-h " host"
Remote gateway host.
Default:
.BR mu2edaq\-gateway.fnal.gov .
.TP
.BI \-u " user"
Remote username on the gateway host.
Default:
.BR mu2eshift .
.TP
.BI \-p " start_port"
First port number in the forwarding range.
Default:
.BR 5951 .
.TP
.BI \-n " num_ports"
Number of ports to forward.
The range forwarded is
.IR [start_port ,\  start_port + num_ports) .
Default:
.BR 5 .
.TP
.B \-k
Kill (close) existing tunnels in the port range instead of opening new ones.
Each tunnel's control socket is signalled with
.BR "ssh \-O exit" .
.SH REQUIREMENTS
.TP
.BR ssh (1)
OpenSSH client with multiplexing support.
.TP
.BR klist (1)
Used to verify that a valid Kerberos TGT exists before attempting SSH.
.TP
Kerberos ticket
A valid, forwardable TGT is required.
Obtain one with
.BR GetTicket.sh (1)
or
.BR mu2e\-krb\-cron.py (1).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
All tunnels opened (or closed) successfully.
.TP
.B 1
No valid Kerberos ticket found, or the
.B \-k
flag was used (the kill path always exits 1 to signal that tunnels were
torn down rather than created).
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Open tunnels with defaults
.PP
.nf
bash start_vnc_tunnels_mu2e.sh
.fi
.SS Open tunnels on a specific host starting at port 5960
.PP
.nf
bash start_vnc_tunnels_mu2e.sh \-h mu2edaq01.fnal.gov \-p 5960 \-n 3
.fi
.SS Close the default set of tunnels
.PP
.nf
bash start_vnc_tunnels_mu2e.sh \-k
.fi
.SS Connect a VNC client after opening tunnels
.PP
With tunnels open on ports 5951\-5955, connect any VNC viewer to
.IR localhost:5951 ,
.IR localhost:5952 ,
etc.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /tmp/ssh\-ctrl\-<host>\-<port>
Multiplexed SSH control socket for each tunnel.
Remove stale sockets manually if a tunnel did not exit cleanly.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ssh (1),
.BR klist (1),
.BR GetTicket (1),
.BR mu2e\-krb\-cron (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Andrew Norman, Mu2e DAQ group, Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory.
