.TH TICKET\-MANAGE 1 "April 2026" "DAQ-ControlRoom" "Mu2e DAQ Utilities"
.SH NAME
ticket\-manage \- graphical Kerberos ticket manager for the Mu2e DAQ control room
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ticket\-manage.py
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ticket\-manage.py
is a Qt6-based GUI application for managing Kerberos tickets used by the
Mu2e DAQ system.
It displays the currently active principal, lists all credential caches
known to the Kerberos collection, and provides buttons to switch between
principals, obtain fresh tickets from keytabs, renew individual tickets,
and bulk-renew all cached tickets.
.PP
A periodic timer fires once per hour and automatically renews the ticket
selected in the principal drop-down, reducing the need for manual
intervention during long shifts.
.PP
On startup the application reads principal and keytab metadata from
.I kerb_princ.json
(searched first in the current working directory, then in the script's own
directory) and probes the live Kerberos collection via the
.B krb5
Python library.
.SH INTERFACE
.SS Current Kerberos Principal
Label showing the principal currently active in the default credential
cache.
Updated when the active principal is switched.
.SS Available Principals (drop-down)
Lists every principal found in the Kerberos collection at startup.
Select a principal here before clicking any action button.
.SS Switch Tickets
Calls
.B kswitch \-p \fIprincipal\fR
to make the selected principal the default credential cache.
.SS Get New Ticket
Reads the keytab path for the selected principal from
.I kerb_princ.json
and calls
.BR "kinit \-kt" .
Falls back to an interactive
.B kinit
if the principal is not found in the config file.
.SS Renew Tickets
Calls
.B kinit \-R
for the principal currently selected in the drop-down.
.SS Renew All Tickets
Calls
.B kinit \-R
for every principal in the list.
Errors for individual principals are printed to stderr but do not stop the
loop.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.B ticket\-manage.py
searches for
.I kerb_princ.json
in the current working directory and then in the directory containing the
script.
The file must be present; the application exits with an error if it cannot
be found.
.PP
Format of
.IR kerb_princ.json :
.PP
.nf
{
    "user": ["mu2edaq", "mu2eshift", ...],
    "principal": {
        "mu2edaq":  "mu2edaq/mu2edaq/mu2e.fnal.gov@FNAL.GOV",
        ...
    },
    "keytab\-master": "mu2e\-all.keytab",
    "keytab": {
        "mu2edaq": "mu2edaq.keytab",
        ...
    },
    "keypath": "/path/to/keytabs"
}
.fi
.PP
.B keytab\-master
names a combined keytab file used when obtaining fresh tickets via the
.I Get New Ticket
button.
Individual per-principal keytab names under
.B keytab
are also recorded but the
.B keytab\-master
value takes precedence in the current implementation.
.PP
An optional
.I ticket\-config.json
file (searched on the same path) can override application defaults;
its format is not yet defined.
.SH PREREQUISITES
.TP
.B Python 3.9 or later
.TP
.B PyQt6
Qt 6 Python bindings
.RB ( pip\ install\ PyQt6 ).
.TP
.B krb5
Python Kerberos 5 bindings
.RB ( pip\ install\ krb5 ).
.TP
.BR kinit (1),\  kswitch (1)
Must be on
.BR PATH .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Application closed normally.
.TP
.B 1
.I kerb_princ.json
was not found or could not be parsed.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I kerb_princ.json
Principal and keytab configuration file.
.TP
.I ticket\-config.json
Optional application configuration file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kinit (1),
.BR kdestroy (1),
.BR klist (1),
.BR kswitch (1),
.BR kerb (1),
.BR mu2e\-krb\-cron (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Andrew Norman, Mu2e DAQ group, Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory.
